&FUNCTIONALITY&
This function module determines an update date for a LIS structure
provided that the update data day (SPTAG), month (SPMON), week (SPWOC),
posting period (SPBUC) and fiscal year variant (PERIV) corresponding to
the period category are known.
This is thus exactly the reverse function to sub-program
PERIDODE_ERMITTELN in report RMCS1000, which is executed during the
updating of a key figure.
It is thus possible, for example, to update key figures in such a way
that they are assigned to an already known dataset (characteristics).
The earliest valid date is determined.
&FUNCTIONALITY&
LIS table S015 has a different data retention level (key fields) than
the operative table S074 provided for the determination of business
volumes.
In order that the updating of income also works properly for LIS table
S015, the rebate income must be apportioned at the finest level during
compilation of the communication structure 'MCKONA' for LIS updating
(function module 'ME_STATISTICS_BONUS_INCOME', function group 'EINS').
This also applies to the updating of the dissolved provisions.
When you work with a reference purchasing organization, the rebate
arrangement is created for the reference purchasing organization with
which the price determination process is carried out. The updating of
the business volumes in LIS table S015 is carried out with the
"original" purchasing organization from the purchasing document
however.
For this reason, it is necessary for the income and the dissolved
provisions to be redistributed from the level "plant" to the level
"material group", "purchasing organization", "purchasing group". The
apportionment is carried out by share in business volume according to
the condition basis that has accumulated in S015.
This module imports the statistics records for the condition record and
plant.
&FURTHER_SOURCES_OF_INF&
You will find general information on the subject of "subsequent
settlement" in the online documentation, in the documentation for
reports RWMBON01, RWMBON02, RWMBON03, etc., and in the more detailed
manual "Subsequent Settlement with Respect to Conditions', order no.
5001 2920.
