DE-EN-LANG-SWITCH-NO-TRANSLATION
General
This function module complements the function module
<DS:FU.IDOC_INPUT_SBINV>IDOC_INPUT_SBINV</> for self-billing with
invoice creation, in which you create external documents in the system
exactly as you receive them.
In the standard self-billing procedure, the customer prices deliveries
from you based on:

Prices from the customer's Purchasing department
Differences between the delivery note and goods receipt
Differences due to the quality of the material, for example
Retroactive price adjustments
The customer uses these prices to prepare a credit advice that they send
to you by Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). The system converts this
advice into intermediate document (IDoc) GSVERF.
The system then determines the corresponding internal delivery, and from
it the internal invoice, based on:

The internal delivery number sent in the credit advice (table LIKP)
The internal delivery number determined from external agent deliveries
(consignment issues) using the customer purchase order number
The external delivery number sent in the credit advice
Once the system has determined the corresponding delivery and invoice,
it compares items in the credit advice, in IDoc form, with items in the
corresponding internal delivery and invoice.
The system compares the following condition values for each item:

Net value
Cash discount
Surcharges/Discounts
Value-added tax (VAT)
If the values in the credit advice match the values in your invoice, the
system assigns the credit advice number as a reference to the open items
in the journal entry.
If the system finds any differences in the values, it terminates
processing of the IDoc and sends a mail to the employee responsible. The
employee can then correct the problem manually, or inform the customer
to send one of the following correction or retro-billing documents:

Credit memo requests for quantity corrections
Credit and debit memo requests for retroactive billing
The system determines the invoices and the related deliveries for these
documents in the same way as for a credit advice.
If the values in the customer credit memo request (quantity correction)
match the values in your delivery, invoice, and the existing credit
memo, the system automatically creates the corresponding credit memo
request, then the credit memo. The system always enters "EDI" as the
order reason, no matter what the reason is for creating a credit or
debit memo request. It also copies the related credit advice number to
the purchase order number field in the purchase order section, and to
the assignment field in the accounting section.
Credit or debit memo requests based on return deliveries, are treated
just as credit memo requests for quantity corrections, except that the
system carries out pricing only for those materials that are returned.
Also, instead of comparing each condition value, the system determines
an overall difference per item and compares it to the overall correction
value.
In the case of retro-billing, the system reprices all documents in the
transaction before comparing the condition values of the items. It
calculates the difference between the old and new prices in the
delivery, invoice, and existing credit or debit memos, and compares it
to the difference calculated by the customer in the credit or debit memo
request. The difference calculated by the customer is copied to
condition type EDI2, and the one that you calculate to condition type
PDIF.If these values match, the system automatically creates a credit or
debit memo request, then a credit or debit memo.
If these values do not match, the system sends a mail to the employee
responsible, but creates the document anyway. If you do not want this,
make the appropriate settings in Customizing for the sales document
type.
The customer sends a payment advice note based on their credit advice.
The credit advice number that they include with the payment advice note
indicates whether there are several deliveries per credit advice number
or only one:

The customer sends payment for a number of deliveries. These deliveries
are covered by one credit advice, the number of which is sent with the
payment.

The customer sends payment for a number of deliveries. There is,
however, only one delivery per credit advice. In this case, the customer
groups the advice numbers and assigns a collective number, such as the
EDI sequential number or vendor posting number. Payment, then, is for
the total of the credit advices represented by this collective number.
To compare open items, you must refer to the individual credit advice
numbers.
Customizing
To use the self-billing procedure, you must first make general
Customizing settings for incoming EDI documents, such as for the process
code and partner profile. You must also make settings particular to
self-billing in <DS:SIMG.SIMG_CFMENUOLSDOVD1X>Customizing</> for
incoming EDI.
IDoc structure
When converting external documents, note that you must create an IDoc
for each delivery (for example, VDA4908: an IDoc must be created for
each record type 823).
IDoc structure GSVERF01 contains the following relevant segments and
fields:
Segment E1EDK01 - General header data

action - Action code

This field controls how a document is processed by the system:

0 = credit advice

1 = correction or retro-billing document

belnr - Self-billing document number

This field contains the external document number.

curcy - currency

This field contains the document currency. All currencies must be sent
in ISO format.
Segment E1EDKA1 - Header data: Partner information

parvw - Partner function

The partner function defines which partner number appears in field
partn:

"LF" Vendor number assigned by the customer
"WK" Customer plant
"AB" Customer unloading point

partn - Partner number

The system uses the above functions to determine the sold-to party
according to settings in Customizing for incoming EDI for the activities
"Assigning a sold-to party", and "Special billing features".
Segment E1EDK02 - Document header: Reference data (one record per
qualifier)

qualf - Qualifier reference document

The system uses this field to determine what type of document is being
used as reference. It recognizes the following qualifiers:

001 Closing number / Purchase order number
012 Delivery note number

Or, to reduce processing time, you can enter the following documents
directly:

061 Internal delivery note
063 External delivery note
064 Goods receipt/issue slip

014 EDI sequential number or vendor posting number
Segment E1EDK03 - Header data: Date segment (one record per qualifier)

iddat - Qualifier date segment

This field specifies what type of date is used in the field datum:

010  Shipping date
030  Goods receipt date

datum - Date

This field contains the date based on qualifier IDDAT.
Segment E1EDK04 - Document header: Taxes

mwskz - Value added tax code
Segment E1EDP01 - Document item: General data

action - Posting key according to VDA 4908 - 09/04
menge  - Delivery quantity
pmene  - Price unit of measure
vprei  - Individual price
Segment E1EDP19 - Document item: Object ID (one record per qualifier)

qualf - Object identification

The system uses this qualifier to determine which materials the customer
is sending, usually:

001 Customer material

This qualifier indicates that field idtnr contains the material number
assigned by the customer, and field ktext the customer material short
description. The customer must always send in a customer material
number.

ktext - Short text

This field contains a short description of the material.
Segment E1EDP26: Document item - Amounts (one record per qualifier)
The system recognizes the following qualifiers:

001 Gross price
003 Net value
007 Discount amount
Segment E1EDP04 - Document item: Taxes

mwbst - Value-added tax amount
mwskz - Value-added tax code
Segment E1EDP05

alckz - '+' for surcharges, '-' for discounts
betrg - Surcharge amount / Discount amount
User exits
The following customer functions are available for the standard
self-billing procedure:

EXIT_SAPLVED5_001

With this customer function, you can perform fine checks on internal and
external condition values for credit advices (action 0 in E1EDK01).

When you receive an advice, the system determines internal condition
values and compares these to the external values sent in by the
customer. If they differ, the system transfers delivery items from the
credit advice one by one.

For each item, the system transfers two characteristics each for the net
value, cash discount, surcharges/discounts, and value-added tax:

xxx_INTERN

This is the value calculated based on internal conditions.

xxx_EXTERN

This is the corresponding value from the intermediate document (IDoc).

Based on your program in the user exit, the system compares these values
to determine if the difference is relevant. If so, it terminates
processing of the IDoc.

If you do not want a difference to be relevant, set the parameter
WERT_DIFFERENZ to "N" or leave it blank. The system then ignores any
difference that it finds.


Use the related standard function, which you set in Customizing for
incoming EDI, for general tolerance checks.

EXIT_SAPLVED5_005
The system collects warnings in table XVBFS that occur when processing
self-billing documents. For each entry in this table, the system creates
a status record in the IDoc, and notifies the employee responsible by
electronic mail.
With this customer function, you enhance the workflow parameters. You
can:

Add a warning to table XVBFS

In this way, you can set the system to send a mail to a recipient for a
particular warning.

Remove a warning

In this case, the system does not create a status record or workflow
item.

EXIT_SAPLVED5_006
In EDI processing for incoming self-billing documents, the system
transfers sets of data to screens in the system by batch input.
With this customer function, you can include billing or other data not
covered by the standard transfer program, for example.
&FUNCTIONALITY&
General
This function module complements the function module
<DS:FU.IDOC_INPUT_GSVERF>IDOC_INPUT_GSVERF</> for the standard
self-billing procedure in which your customers send credit advices, by
Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), that you compare to your internal
invoices.
In the self-billing procedure with invoice creation, the customer
prices deliveries from you based on:

Prices from the customer's Purchasing department
Differences between the delivery note and goods receipt
Differences due to the quality of the material, for example
Retroactive price adjustments
The customer uses these prices to prepare an invoice on your behalf
that they send to you by Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). The system
receives and converts this invoice into intermediate document (IDoc)
GSVERF. It then forwards it to this function module, which determines
the reference delivery and items based on the internal delivery number,
or external delivery number, sent in the external invoice.
In this procedure, you cannot create an invoice for the delivery: no
original invoice exists. However, the system simulates invoice creation
to determine internal prices and their conditions.
Once the system has determined the reference delivery and simulated an
invoice, it compares condition values in these documents to those in
the external invoice, in IDoc form. The system compares only those
conditions specified in the IDoc and entered in
<DS:SIMG.SIMG_CFMENUOLSDOVD1X>Customizing</>.
If the values in the external invoice match the values in the simulated
invoice, and the delivery, the system creates an invoice in the R/3
System exactly as the customer has prepared it. Note that the system
does not use the standard billing transaction here, but rather a
special billing interface (GN_INVOICE_CREATE).
If the system finds any differences in the values, it updates the IDoc
status records, and sends a mail to the employee responsible. It
creates the document anyway.
Self-Billing Document Types
The customer can send in the following documents for the self-billing
procedure with invoice creation:

Invoice

The customer must submit invoices with reference to one or more
internal or external deliveries. Several invoices can be sent for one
delivery item. The system will continue to create invoices as the
customer sends them until the delivery has been fully billed.

Credit memos for quantity corrections

The customer sends in a credit memo when they have billed a larger
quantity of material in the invoice than what was actually delivered.
The customer must submit credit memos of this type with reference to
the invoice.

Credit and debit memos for retroactive billing

The customer sends in a credit or debit memo to balance out retroactive
price adjustments. The customer must submit credit and debit memos of
this type with reference to one or more invoices.

In the case of credit memos, the system calculates the difference
between the old and new prices in the invoice and delivery, and enters
it into condition PDIF to use in the pricing procedure.

Cancellation documents

The customer sends in a cancellation document to cancel existing
invoices, credit memos, or debit memos. The customer must submit
documents of this type with reference to the document they wish to
cancel.
When the invoice needs to be adjusted, the employee informs the
customer to send one of the above correction or retro-billing
documents:
The system determines the invoices for these documents, along with the
related deliveries, credit and debit memos, and cancellation documents.
If the values in the external credit memo (quantity correction) match
the values in the invoice, and delivery, the system automatically
creates a credit memo exactly as the customer has prepared it.
Credit or debit memo requests based on return deliveries, are treated
just as credit memo requests for quantity corrections, except that the
system carries out pricing only for those materials that are returned.
Also, instead of comparing each condition value, the system determines
an overall difference per item and compares it to the overall
correction value.
In the case of retro-billing, the system reprices all documents in the
transaction before comparing the condition values of the items. It
calculates the difference between the old and new prices in the invoice
and delivery, and enters it into condition PDIF to use in the pricing
procedure. The difference calculated by the customer in the credit or
debit memo is entered in the internal condition that you have assigned
in Customizing. If these values match, the system automatically creates
the credit or debit memo.
If these values do not match, the system sends a mail to the employee
responsible, but creates the document anyway. If you do not want this,
make the appropriate settings in Customizing for the sales document
type.
Troubleshooting
The system may sometimes end processing of the IDoc for an invoice sent
in by the customer. In this case, no invoice is created in the R/3
System. This may happen because:

You have not made the appropriate Customizing settings for
self-billing, or the necessary general Customizing settings.

There are different values for the internal and external conditions
that you have assigned in Customizing (V4 177).

There are different value-added tax indicators (V4 180).

The order referred to in the external invoice is different from the
order determined by the system from the delivery.

There are different sales units (V4 174).

The customer did not specify a material (V4 173).

There are different sales organizations (V4 165).

There are different currencies (V4 185).

The invoice referred to in the correction document does not exist or
has been cancelled (V4 181).

The simulated invoice has no value (V4 191).

The external invoice contains items that the system normally would not
copy to a billing document in the R/3 System (V4 198).

The external invoice requires an invoice split.

General errors in billing document creation have occurred.
Customizing
To use the self-billing procedure with invoice creation, you must first
make general Customizing settings for incoming EDI documents, such as
for the process code and partner profile. You must then make settings
particular to self-billing in
<DS:SIMG.SIMG_CFMENUOLSDOVD1X>Customizing</> for incoming EDI.
IDoc Structure
IDoc GSVERF01 contains the following segments and fields:
E1EDK01 - General header data

action - Action code

This field controls how a document is processed by the system. Use one
of the following values:

0 - Invoice

The system creates an invoice with the billing category specified for
invoices in Customizing.

1 - Credit memo for retro-billing

The system creates a credit memo with the billing category specified in
Customizing for credit memos for retro-billing.

2 - Debit memo for retro-billing

The system creates a debit memo with the billing category specified in
Customizing for debit memos for retro-billing.

3 - Cancellation

The system creates a cancellation billing document with the billing
category specified in Customizing for the document being cancelled.

4 - Credit memo for quantity corrections

The system creates a credit memo with the billing category specified in
Customizing for credit memos for quantity corrections.

belnr - Document number

This field contains the external invoice number. It is used in
reference field XBLNR for settling payment.

curcy  - Currency

This field contains the document currency. All currencies must be sent
in ISO format.

zterm - Term of payment key

This field contains the terms of payment. The system copies these to
the billing document.

kundeuinr - VAT registration number (customer)

This field contains the customer VAT registration number. The system
checks the number in this field against the customer master.

eigenuinr - VAT registration number (vendor)

This field contains the vendor VAT registration number. The system
checks the number in this field against the number in your records.

augru - Order reason

This field contains the billing reason. The system copies it to field
AUGRU in the billing document. Although it does not appear online, you
can use this field in print programs, for example.
E1EDKA1 - Header data: Partner information

parvw - Partner function

The partner function defines which partner number appears in field
PARTN:

"LF" Vendor number assigned by the customer
"WK" Customer plant
"AB" Customer unloading point

partn - Partner number

The system uses the above functions to determine the sold-to party
according to settings in Customizing for incoming EDI for the
activities "Assigning a sold-to party", and "Special billing features".
E1EDK05 - Document header conditions

kschl - Condition type

This field contains the condition type defined in
<DS:SIMG.SIMG_CFMENUOLSDVOK0>Customizing</>.

betrg - Amount

This field contains the total amount, or a percent value of the
condition.

uprbs - Price unit

This field contains the number of units, to which the field BETRG
refers.

meaun - Unit of measurement

This field contains the unit of measure for field UPRBS.
E1EDK03 - Header data: Date segment

iddat - Qualifier date segment

This field specifies what type of date is used in field DATUM. There
are two types:

012 Document date

This date is used for the billing date (FKDAT).

024  Fixed value date

This date is used for the terms of payment (VALDT).

datum - Date

This field contains the date based on qualifier IDDAT.
E1EDKT1 - Header data: Text identification

tdid - Text ID

This field contains the text ID defined in
<DS:SIMGSIMG_XXMENUOLSDVOTX2>Customizing</>.

tsspras_iso - Language

This field contains the text language in ISO format.
E1EDKT2 - Document header: Texts

tdline - Text lines

This field contains a line of text.

tdformat - Tag column

You enter a format for the text lines in this field.
E1EDP01 - Document item: General data

posex - Item number

This field contains the external item number.

The item number of the related item in the billing document is assigned
by the system according to your settings in Customizing. This number
has nothing to do with the external item number sent in by the
customer.

menge - Quantity

This field contains the quantity to be billed. Quantities must be
specified in sales units.

menee - Unit of measure

This field specifies the sales unit.

netwr - Net value

This field contains the net value. Although the system copies this
data, it does not use it in any calculations. Rather, the system uses
values in the condition segment (see below) in its pricing
calculations.

ntgew - Net weight

This field contains the weight for the item. The system copies this
data, but does not use it in any calculations. You can include this
field in any of the customer functions.

gewei - Weight unit

This field contains the unit of weight. The system copies this data,
but does not use it in any calculations. You can include this field in
any of the customer functions.
E1EDP02 - Document item: Reference data

qualf - Qualifier reference document

The system uses this field to determine what type of document is being
used as reference. It recognizes the following qualifiers:

001 Sales order

You can enter an order number, if required. When you do, the system
compares it to the order in the document flow to make sure they match.

When the customer sends this qualifier, use the purchase order number
from the order (field BSTKD) for the document number.

009 Billing document

If the IDoc is for a credit or debit memo, or a cancellation, you must
enter a billing document number as reference.

When the customer sends this qualifier, use the external billing
document number (XBLNR) for the document number.

012 Delivery

You must always enter a delivery number.

When the customer sends this qualifier, you can use the internal or
external delivery number (VBELN or LIFEX, respectively) for the
document number. To reduce processing time, you can also enter the
following documents directly:

- 061 Internal delivery note
- 062 Purchase order (customer) for the external agent delivery note
- 063 External delivery note

belnr - Document number

This field contains the document number based on the qualifier sent in
by the customer.
E1EDP03 - Document item: Date segment

iddat - Qualifier date segment

The system uses this qualifier to determine which date the customer
sent in field DATUM. There are two types:

001 Delivery date
030 Goods receipt date

These dates are for information only. You can, however, include them in
any of the customer functions.

datum - Date

This field contains the date, based on the qualifer sent in by the
customer.
E1EDP05 - Document item: Conditions

kschl - Condition type

This field contains the condition type defined in
<DS:SIMGSIMG_CFMENUOLSDVOK0>Customizing</>.

betrg - Amount

This field contains the total amount, or a percent value of the
condition.

uprbs - Price unit

This field contains the number of units, to which the field BETRG
refers.

meaun - Unit of measurement

This field contains the unit of measure for field UPRBS.

mwskz - Value-added tax indicator

This field is for a value-added tax indicator. If one is sent, the
system compares it to the tax indicator for the corresponding condition
that you have specified for comparison.
E1EDP19 - Document item: Object identification

qualf - Object identification

The system uses this qualifier to determine which materials are in
fields IDTRN and KTEXT. There are two types:

001 Customer material

This qualifier indicates that field IDTNR contains the material number
assigned by the customer, and field KTEXT the customer material short
description. The customer must send in a customer material number.

002 Material

When the customer sends in this qualifier, the field IDTNR contains
your material number.

idtnr - Material identification

This field contains the material number based on the qualifier sent in
by the customer.

ktext - Short text

This field contains a short description of the material. The system
uses this description only when it cannot find the material and you
create a billing document with external reference.
E1EDPT1 - Document item: Text identification

tdid - Text ID

This field contains the text ID defined in
<DS:SIMGSIMG_XXMENUOLSDVOTX2>Customizing</>.

tsspras_iso - Language

This field contains the text language in ISO format.
E1EDPT2 - Document item: Texts

tdline - Text lines

This field contains a line of text.

tdformat - Tag column

You enter a format for the text lines in this field.
Customer functions
The following customer functions are available for self-billing with
invoice creation:

EXIT_SAPLVED5_002

With this customer function, you can analyze and process warnings that
the system collects when processing self-billing documents. You can,
for example:

Create a special message for a particular recipient

Design a workflow that is different from the standard

Create a message to send to the customer

If your customer forgets to include a tax indicator in the IDoc, for
instance, the system issues a warning. In this case, you can set the
system to automatically notify the customer of the problem.

Additionally, you can process general data sent in the external billing
document. For example, you can include this data in messages to give
the recipient/customer more detailed information about the problem.

EXIT_SAPLVED5_003

With this customer function, you can program your own tolerance checks
on internal and external conditions. You can, for example:

Design condition value tolerance checks for a specific customer

Perform tolerance checks based on quantities, for instance, a larger
tolerance for larger quantities

The system always transfers header data and conditions from the billing
document IDoc. Item data, on the other hand, is transferred only when
there are conditions to be taken into account for the item.

If required, you can set the system to ignore any differences between
condition values. If you want to continue processing even if there are
differences in the values, leave the DIFFREL indicator blank.

The system sets the WERTDIF indicator when there is a difference in
condition values. Unmark this field if you want the system to ignore
the difference.

EXIT_SAPLVED5_004

With this customer function, you can review and change data in the
external billing document IDoc and data for the billing document
interface before creating the document in the R/3 System.

For example, you can replace a currency with only two decimal places
with a currency with four decimal places recognized by the R/3 System.
