DE-EN-LANG-SWITCH-NO-TRANSLATION
General
This function module complements the function module
<DS:FU.IDOC_INPUT_SBINV>IDOC_INPUT_SBINV</> for self-billing with
invoice creation, in which you create external documents in the system
exactly as you receive them.
In the standard self-billing procedure, the customer prices deliveries
from you based on:

Prices from the customer's Purchasing department
Differences between the delivery note and goods receipt
Differences due to the quality of the material, for example
Retroactive price adjustments
The customer uses these prices to prepare a credit advice that they send
to you by Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). The system converts this
advice into intermediate document (IDoc) GSVERF.
The system then determines the corresponding internal delivery, and from
it the internal invoice, based on:

The internal delivery number sent in the credit advice (table LIKP)
The internal delivery number determined from external agent deliveries
(consignment issues) using the customer purchase order number
The external delivery number sent in the credit advice
Once the system has determined the corresponding delivery and invoice,
it compares items in the credit advice, in IDoc form, with items in the
corresponding internal delivery and invoice.
The system compares the following condition values for each item:

Net value
Cash discount
Surcharges/Discounts
Value-added tax (VAT)
If the values in the credit advice match the values in your invoice, the
system assigns the credit advice number as a reference to the open items
in the journal entry.
If the system finds any differences in the values, it terminates
processing of the IDoc and sends a mail to the employee responsible. The
employee can then correct the problem manually, or inform the customer
to send one of the following correction or retro-billing documents:

Credit memo requests for quantity corrections
Credit and debit memo requests for retroactive billing
The system determines the invoices and the related deliveries for these
documents in the same way as for a credit advice.
If the values in the customer credit memo request (quantity correction)
match the values in your delivery, invoice, and the existing credit
memo, the system automatically creates the corresponding credit memo
request, then the credit memo. The system always enters "EDI" as the
order reason, no matter what the reason is for creating a credit or
debit memo request. It also copies the related credit advice number to
the purchase order number field in the purchase order section, and to
the assignment field in the accounting section.
Credit or debit memo requests based on return deliveries, are treated
just as credit memo requests for quantity corrections, except that the
system carries out pricing only for those materials that are returned.
Also, instead of comparing each condition value, the system determines
an overall difference per item and compares it to the overall correction
value.
In the case of retro-billing, the system reprices all documents in the
transaction before comparing the condition values of the items. It
calculates the difference between the old and new prices in the
delivery, invoice, and existing credit or debit memos, and compares it
to the difference calculated by the customer in the credit or debit memo
request. The difference calculated by the customer is copied to
condition type EDI2, and the one that you calculate to condition type
PDIF.If these values match, the system automatically creates a credit or
debit memo request, then a credit or debit memo.
If these values do not match, the system sends a mail to the employee
responsible, but creates the document anyway. If you do not want this,
make the appropriate settings in Customizing for the sales document
type.
The customer sends a payment advice note based on their credit advice.
The credit advice number that they include with the payment advice note
indicates whether there are several deliveries per credit advice number
or only one:

The customer sends payment for a number of deliveries. These deliveries
are covered by one credit advice, the number of which is sent with the
payment.

The customer sends payment for a number of deliveries. There is,
however, only one delivery per credit advice. In this case, the customer
groups the advice numbers and assigns a collective number, such as the
EDI sequential number or vendor posting number. Payment, then, is for
the total of the credit advices represented by this collective number.
To compare open items, you must refer to the individual credit advice
numbers.
Customizing
To use the self-billing procedure, you must first make general
Customizing settings for incoming EDI documents, such as for the process
code and partner profile. You must also make settings particular to
self-billing in <DS:SIMG.SIMG_CFMENUOLSDOVD1X>Customizing</> for
incoming EDI.
IDoc structure
When converting external documents, note that you must create an IDoc
for each delivery (for example, VDA4908: an IDoc must be created for
each record type 823).
IDoc structure GSVERF01 contains the following relevant segments and
fields:
Segment E1EDK01 - General header data

action - Action code

This field controls how a document is processed by the system:

0 = credit advice

1 = correction or retro-billing document

belnr - Self-billing document number

This field contains the external document number.

curcy - currency

This field contains the document currency. All currencies must be sent
in ISO format.
Segment E1EDKA1 - Header data: Partner information

parvw - Partner function

The partner function defines which partner number appears in field
partn:

"LF" Vendor number assigned by the customer
"WK" Customer plant
"AB" Customer unloading point

partn - Partner number

The system uses the above functions to determine the sold-to party
according to settings in Customizing for incoming EDI for the activities
"Assigning a sold-to party", and "Special billing features".
Segment E1EDK02 - Document header: Reference data (one record per
qualifier)

qualf - Qualifier reference document

The system uses this field to determine what type of document is being
used as reference. It recognizes the following qualifiers:

001 Closing number / Purchase order number
012 Delivery note number

Or, to reduce processing time, you can enter the following documents
directly:

061 Internal delivery note
063 External delivery note
064 Goods receipt/issue slip

014 EDI sequential number or vendor posting number
Segment E1EDK03 - Header data: Date segment (one record per qualifier)

iddat - Qualifier date segment

This field specifies what type of date is used in the field datum:

010  Shipping date
030  Goods receipt date

datum - Date

This field contains the date based on qualifier IDDAT.
Segment E1EDK04 - Document header: Taxes

mwskz - Value added tax code
Segment E1EDP01 - Document item: General data

action - Posting key according to VDA 4908 - 09/04
menge  - Delivery quantity
pmene  - Price unit of measure
vprei  - Individual price
Segment E1EDP19 - Document item: Object ID (one record per qualifier)

qualf - Object identification

The system uses this qualifier to determine which materials the customer
is sending, usually:

001 Customer material

This qualifier indicates that field idtnr contains the material number
assigned by the customer, and field ktext the customer material short
description. The customer must always send in a customer material
number.

ktext - Short text

This field contains a short description of the material.
Segment E1EDP26: Document item - Amounts (one record per qualifier)
The system recognizes the following qualifiers:

001 Gross price
003 Net value
007 Discount amount
Segment E1EDP04 - Document item: Taxes

mwbst - Value-added tax amount
mwskz - Value-added tax code
Segment E1EDP05

alckz - '+' for surcharges, '-' for discounts
betrg - Surcharge amount / Discount amount
User exits
The following customer functions are available for the standard
self-billing procedure:

EXIT_SAPLVED5_001

With this customer function, you can perform fine checks on internal and
external condition values for credit advices (action 0 in E1EDK01).

When you receive an advice, the system determines internal condition
values and compares these to the external values sent in by the
customer. If they differ, the system transfers delivery items from the
credit advice one by one.

For each item, the system transfers two characteristics each for the net
value, cash discount, surcharges/discounts, and value-added tax:

xxx_INTERN

This is the value calculated based on internal conditions.

xxx_EXTERN

This is the corresponding value from the intermediate document (IDoc).

Based on your program in the user exit, the system compares these values
to determine if the difference is relevant. If so, it terminates
processing of the IDoc.

If you do not want a difference to be relevant, set the parameter
WERT_DIFFERENZ to "N" or leave it blank. The system then ignores any
difference that it finds.


Use the related standard function, which you set in Customizing for
incoming EDI, for general tolerance checks.

EXIT_SAPLVED5_005
The system collects warnings in table XVBFS that occur when processing
self-billing documents. For each entry in this table, the system creates
a status record in the IDoc, and notifies the employee responsible by
electronic mail.
With this customer function, you enhance the workflow parameters. You
can:

Add a warning to table XVBFS

In this way, you can set the system to send a mail to a recipient for a
particular warning.

Remove a warning

In this case, the system does not create a status record or workflow
item.

EXIT_SAPLVED5_006
In EDI processing for incoming self-billing documents, the system
transfers sets of data to screens in the system by batch input.
With this customer function, you can include billing or other data not
covered by the standard transfer program, for example.
