The output category for processing forecast delivery schedules / JIT
delivery schedules is DELINS. The corresponding IDoc structure is
DELFOR01. When creating an IDoc from standard output using a converter,
make sure that an IDoc is created for a customer material number in
each delivery schedule.
<ZH>Example:</> VDA4905 - an IDOc for every record type 513
Copy / process the following fields in the IDoc:
Segment E1EDK09

vtrnr  - Closing number / purchase order number of the customer
abrvw  - Usage indicator (e.g S = Serial, E = Replacement, etc.)
labnk  - Delivery schedule number, new
bstdk  - Delivery schedule date, new for field labnk
abnra  - Scheduling agreement release number - old
abnrd  - Release date - old for field abnra
cydat  - Date at which cumulative quantity received by customer
         is set to zero
cyefz  - Cumulative quantity reached at date it is set to zero
mflauf - Runtime for material go-ahead
mfein  - Period indicator for material go-ahead (1->day, 2->week,
         3->month)
fflauf - Runtime for production go-ahead
ffein  - Period indicator for production go-ahead (period length see
         above)
bstzd  - Account assignment
zeich  - Reference for component supplier (your reference)
kstat  - If an error has occured in translation, enter a status here
ktext  - If you have maintained kstat, enter a status description here
If you have maintained the last two fields, the system terminates
scheduling and an error message with the content of the field ktext is
sent to the relevant SAP user.
Segment E1EDKA1
The each of the following partner functions to an E1EDKA1 record:

LF with field partn = Vendor number of receiver at customer
AG with field partn = Customer number
WE with field partn = Ship-to party
AB with field partn = Unloading point
Partner functions AG and WE do not necessarily need to be specified,
because the internal numbers are determined using LF, and AB. The
customer plant number is determined from segment E1EDP10.
Segment E1EDP10

idnkd - Customer material number
kwerk - Customer plant number
belnr - Last delivery note number of customer
screl - Description for scheduling agreement release
Allowed values: 02 = JIT dlvy sched., 03 = Dlvy sched., 04 = Dlvy
sched.
abhor - Date of JIT horizon
lidtl - Last delivery date for field belnr
akuem - Entry cumulative qty of customer for last delivery
lfimg - Last delivery quantity for field belnr
sollfz - Planned cumulative quantity to be targeted
solldt - Date for field sollfz
fzdif - Cumulative quantity difference between actual cumulative
received quantity and the cumulative received quantity expected by the
customer (for JIT - AUDI)
abfde - Production release end as date
abmde - Material release end date
For the last two fields, the translator calculates a period (e.g. a
month ) or determines a date via table entries for the release periods
in the customer/material record.

abrab - Scheduling agreement release valid from date
abrbi - Scheduling agreement release valid to date
labky - Scheduling agreement key. The following schedule lines are
transferred:
1 = All schedule lines in abrab and abrbi AND schedule lines from the
old scheduling agreement release which lie outside of this time frame.
2 = The old scheduling agreement release is replaced completely by the
new schedule lines.
vbrst - Customer point of consumption
kritb - Critical stock indicator
dfabl - If the unloading point is not transferred in segment E1EDKA1,
enter it here.
Segment E1EDK11 and/or E1EDP15

tdname - Text name. This field must agree with the settings in SAP
Customizing. For example, if an item text in the SAP system is defined
as '0001' and is to be transferred, the translator must use '0001' as
tdname.
spras - Language key. Must agree with setting in SAP Customizing.
txtlf - Cumulative number if several text segments from the same field
tdname are to be transferred.
Segment E1EDP14

pcknr - Customer packing / material number
anzpk - Number of shipping units
anzar - Number of articles/materials per shipping unit
gdatv - Validity date for shipping unit
Segment E1EDP16

ettyp - Schedule line type. Relevant values:
1 = Fixed deadline, 2 = Backlog, 3 = Immediate req., 4 = preview, 9 =
JIT
prgrs - Date cat. Relevant values:
D or blank = day, W = week, M = month, I = interval
edatuv - Schedule line date from
edatub - Schedule line date to
For daily schedule lines, edatuv and edatub must be identical.
For weekly schedule lines, enter the first day of the week in the
schedule line from-date field.
For monthly schedule lines, enter the first day of the month.
For intervals, enter the beginning of the interval as the schedule line
from-date and the end of the interval as the schedule line to-date.
ezeit - Time of scheduling agreement release
etvtf - Distribution function. The contents of this field  must
correspond to the settings made in Customizing in the SAP system. When
transporting this field, be aware that the weekly dates or intervals
may be distributed linearly over individual days.
wmeng - Schedule line quantity
